This is the error/warning message database for the Coordinated Great 
Lakes Regulation and Routing Model (CGLRRM).  The program uses the 
following text  blocks to convey a message to the user.  For best 
results on the screen, try to keep the lines down to 79 characters or 
less.

#1000

Tried to open a file (for write) and was denied.  There may be a 
permission problem with writing to the present working directory or the 
specific filename.  Another process may already have the file open.  The 
filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), and the build 
information are as follows:

#1001

Could not find the master input file in the present working directory. 
It contains the names of parameter files to open and read.
  
#1002

The master input file exists, but could not be opened.  Another process 
(e.g., an editor) may already have it opened for write access.  The 
filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), and the build 
information are as follows:

#1003

Experienced a read error.  The filename and resulting IOSTAT value 
(which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler used to create this 
version of the CGLRRM executable), and the build information are as 
follows:

#1004

A problem was found in the master input file.  This file should contain 
only comments and parameter file names.  The program tried to find a 
file with the name below and failed.  Check the spelling and path from 
the present working directory. 

#1005

The parameter file exists, but could not be opened.  Another process 
(e.g., an editor) may already have it open for write access.  The 
filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), and the build 
information are as follows:

#1006

A parameter file appears to contain more than 32766 lines.  This file 
may be corrupt. The file in question is named:

#1007

Could not find a ':' in one of the lines of a parameter file.  A colon 
is used to separate the parameter ID code from the comma-delimited list 
of data for that parameter.  The line in question reads:

#1008

Found an ':' inappropriately located in one of the lines of a parameter 
file.  A colon is used to separate the parameter ID code from the comma-
delimited list of data for that parameter.  In this case, the parameter 
ID is shorter than six characters (the shortest one defined).  The line 
in question reads:

#1009

Didn't find anything after the ':' on a parameter line.  A colon is used 
to separate the parameter ID code from the comma-delimited list of data 
for that parameter.  In this case, there was no data on the line.  The 
line in question reads:

#1010

Did not recognize a parameter ID code.  It must be one of those 
described in the documentation.  Check the spelling. The line in 
question reads:

#1011

Found a match error in the list of parameters.  Since some parameter 
codes are concatenated into strings, the end of one code may be combined 
with the beginning of another code, creating a valid match.  Change or 
re-arrange the codes, and re-compile.  The line in question reads:

#1012

The parameter matched one in the list, but there was no corresponding 
label in the list for the computed GOTO.  Check any relevant changes 
made to the source code. The parameter ID code, its index number, and 
the parameter line it was
read from are as follows:

#1013

Could not find the message database file specified by parameter 
MESSAGEDATABASE.  The filename used and the parameter line it was read 
from are as follows:

#1014

Invalid value specified for a VERBOSITY parameter. The character 
after the ':' must be an integer between '1' and '9'.

#1015

Unable to open a temporary file in the output directory specified by the 
parameter OUTPUTDIRECTORY.  The directory may not exist, there may be a 
permission problem, or the path from the present working directory may 
be incorrect.  The filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the 
FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), 
the build information, and the line containing the OUTPUTDIRECTORY 
parameter are as follows:

#1016

Was able to open a temporary file in the output directory specified by 
the parameter OUTPUTDIRECTORY, but could not write to it.  There may be a 
permission problem, or the file may be in use by another process.  The 
filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), the build 
information, and the line containing the OUTPUTDIRECTORY parameter are as 
follows:

#1017

Was able to open a temporary file in the output directory specified by 
the parameter OUTPUTDIRECTORY, and write to it, but couldn't delete it 
afterwards.  There may be a permission problem, or the file may be in 
use by another process.  Be aware that some file systems (such as that 
used on Novell Netware servers) have separate permissions for write and 
delete.  The filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the 
FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), 
the build information, and the line containing the OUTPUTDIRECTORY 
parameter are as follows:

#1018

Filename extensions cannot exceed six characters (including the optional 
leading '.').  

#1019

Did not recognize the directory separator used as the final character in 
the string specified for the parameter OUTPUTDIRECTORY.  The program 
successfully opened and wrote to a file, but the directory used may not 
be correct. Check file time and data stamps in the output directory to 
ensure that they are not from previous runs.  If they are old, check in 
the present working directory (or the directories within the path 
specified in OUTPUTDIRECTORY) for misnamed files.  

If the last character in OUTPUTDIRECTORY intentionally isn't a directory 
separator, then an invalid filespec may be created, and future runs may 
result in errors.

Otherwise, the model has been compiled on some operating system (or with 
a file system) with directory separators unknown to the program.  Update 
the DIRSEP array in BLOKDATA.FOR.  In this case, please also contact the 
authors, so that they can update the distribution code.

#1020

Could not interpret year given for parameter "Start Date".  The first 
characters after the ':' must be 1-6 digit integers with digits between 
'0' and '9'.  The IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN 
compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), the 
build information, and the line in question, are as follows:

#1021

The specified year is out of range.  Must be integer value between 1 and 
99999.  The value read and the input line are as follows:

#1022
Warning.  Found no data in the 'month' field of the "Start Date" record.  
January 1 was assumed as the starting month and day.

#1023

Could not interpret month given for parameter "Start Date".  The first 
characters after the first ',' must be 1-2 digit integers between '1' 
and '12'.  The IOSTAT (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), the build 
information, and the line in question, are as follows:

#1024

The specified month value is out of range.  Must be an integer between 
'1' and '12'.  The value read and the input line are as follows:

#1025
Warning.  Found no data in the 'day' field of the "Start Date" record.  
The first was assumed as the starting day.

#1026

The specified day is out of range.  Must be an integer of at least 1 and 
less than or equal to the length of the month.  The value read and the 
input line are as follows:

#1027

No starting year was given in "Start Date" parameter.  This is required 
information.  The input line is as follows:

#1028

No ending year was given in "End Date" parameter.  This is required 
information.  The input line is as follows:

#1029

Could not interpret year given for date parameter.  The first characters 
after the ':' must be 1-6 digit integers with digits between '0' and
'9'.  The IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), the build 
information, and the line in question, are as follows:

#1030
Warning.  Found no data in the 'month' field of the "End Date" record.  
December 31 was assumed as the ending month and day.  

#1031
Warning.  Found no data in the 'day' field of the "End Date" record.  The 
final day of the month was assumed to be the ending day.

#1032
 . . . assuming starting month and day of January 1

#1033
 . . . assuming starting day of 1st day of month

#1034
 . . . assuming ending month and day of December 31

#1035
 . . . assuming ending day as last day of month

#1036

Could not interpret month given for date parameter.  The first 
characters after the first ',' must be 1-2 digit integers between '1' 
and '12'.  The IOSTAT (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), the build 
information, and the line in question, are as follows:

#1037

Could not interpret day given for parameter "Start Date".  The first 
characters after the first ',' must be 1-2 digit integers between '1' 
and the number of days in the month.  The IOSTAT (which has meaning only 
to the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM 
executable), the build information, and the line in question:

#1038

Could not interpret day given for date parameter.  The first characters 
after the first ',' must be 1-2 digit integers between '1' and the 
number of days in the month.  The IOSTAT (which has meaning only to the 
FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), 
the build information, and the line in question, are as follows:

#1039

An Area-Elev record specifies no area (blank first field).  This is 
required information.  The input line is as follows:

#1040

Unable to read a float from the following string because it is longer 
than 32 characters long.  The input line is as follows:

#1041

Failed to recognize the units (if any) specified for a parameter value.  
Please consult the documentation for a comprehensive list of allowable 
units.  The field in question and the input line are as follows:

#1042

Recognized the units specified for a parameter value, but did not find a 
number in front of the unit label.  The field in question and input line 
are as follows:

#1043

Could not read a parameter value in as a REAL number.  Check the entry 
(may have O's instead of 0's, etc.).  Some compilers have specific 
requirements (e.g., M$ FORTRAN 5.0 compilers do not accept exponential 
formats without an exponent (e.g., 1.234E), SparcStation compilers 
assume zero (i.e, 1.234E0).  The IOSTAT (which has meaning only to the 
FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), 
the build information, and the line in question, are as follows:

#1044

Inappropriate input units used, resulting in an unrecognized or illegal 
unit conversion (e.g., a lake level specifying "176.54 m3s" in lieu of 
"176.54 m)".  Program terminated. Note that all computations are 
performed in metric units.  English units may be specified, but are 
immediately converted to metric.  Metric-to-metric conversions are also 
performed (e.g., square kilometers to square meters).  The units 
specified, the units the program intends to work with, and the input 
field, are as follows:

#1045

Too many surface area/elevation data pairs specified.  The default 
maximum is five points to define the curve.  If more points are desired, 
change the second dimension on array AVSZ, adjust the limit in function 
READAVSZ, and re-compile.

#1046

Encountered ambiguity reading a parameter value.  The last five 
characters matched the tens of cubic meters per second label ("10m3s"), 
but there is no separation between the number and units (e.g., 210m3s 
can be interpreted as either 20 or 210 m3s.  The line in question is as 
follows:

#1047

Encountered inconsistency with area-elevation data.  Read the first 
point of a valid data pair, but a constant area had already been 
specified.  The line in question is as follows:

#1048

Encountered inconsistency with area-elevation data.  Read a constant 
area, but a first area/elevation point had already been read.  The line 
in question is as follows:

#1049

Encountered mistake in area-elevation data.  For two of the points, area 
is decreasing with elevation.  The data in question are as follows:

#1050

Encountered mistake in area-elevation data.  Two of the points have the 
same elevation.  Points must be at least a millimeter apart in 
elevation.  The data in question are as follows:

#1051

Tried to interpolate/extrapolate a value from two points, but the X 
values for each point were practically identical.  This would result in 
a division by zero error.  The X values data in question are as follows:

#1052

Warning.  Extrapolated based on the closest pair of data points.  It is 
recommended that the curve be extended. The extrapolated value and data 
points used are as follows:

#1053

Discharge equation record specifies no 'K' value (blank first field).  
This is required information, corresponding to the outflow equation 
coefficient, in the general discharge equation:   

Q= K *  (WT*ZU + (1.-WT)*ZD - YM)**A  *  (ZU-ZD+ZC)**B

The input line is as follows:

#1054

Discharge equation record specifies no 'YM' value (blank second field).  
This is required information, corresponding to the outlet bottom 
elevation constant, in the general discharge equation:   

Q= K *  (WT*ZU + (1.-WT)*ZD - YM)**A  *  (ZU-ZD+ZC)**B

The input line is as follows:

#1055

Discharge equation record specifies no 'A' value (blank third field).  
This is required information, corresponding to the exponent for the 
"depth" term, in the general discharge equation:   

Q= K *  (WT*ZU + (1.-WT)*ZD - YM)**A  *  (ZU-ZD+ZC)**B

The input line is as follows:

#1056

Discharge equation record specifies no 'B' value (blank fourth field).  
This is required information, corresponding to the exponent for the 
"fall" term, in the general discharge equation:   

Q= K *  (WT*ZU + (1.-WT)*ZD - YM)**A  *  (ZU-ZD+ZC)**B

The input line is as follows:

#1057

Discharge equation record specifies no 'WT' value (blank fifth field).  
This is required information, corresponding to the weighting factor for 
the upstream lake, in the general discharge equation:   

Q= K *  (WT*ZU + (1.-WT)*ZD - YM)**A  *  (ZU-ZD+ZC)**B

The input line is as follows:

#1058

Discharge equation record specifies no 'ZC' value (blank sixth field).  
This is required information, corresponding to the fall adjustment 
constant, in the general discharge equation:   

Q= K *  (WT*ZU + (1.-WT)*ZD - YM)**A  *  (ZU-ZD+ZC)**B

The input line is as follows:

#1059

Parameter record neglected to specify a value (blank first field).  
Please edit the record.  The input line is as follows:

#1060

An MIDLAKEINC, SUPERIORINC, ONTARIOINC, or P77AMIDLAKEINC record 
specifies an invalid value.  The number of increments must be between 1 
and 999.  The value read and the input line are as follows:

#1061

Encountered read error.   The IOSTAT value which has meaning only to the 
FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), 
the build information, and the line in question, are as follows:

#1062

Lake Superior level fell too low to use the gate equations.  It is 
likely that the level has been outside the range of validity for some 
time, and the discharge values should be viewed with skepticism.  Check 
model input.  The level is as follows:

#1063

Failed to specify a necessary starting elevation.

#1064

Could not find the data file specified.  The filename used and the 
parameter line it was read from are as follows:

#1065

Tried to compute a discharge equation using water levels outside the 
range for which it is valid.  Downstream water level is higher than 
upstream water level (plus ZC), or the upstream water level is lower 
than the channel invert (second value on the parameter input line 
describing the equation). 

This may happen when routing through the middle lakes with really large 
and abrupt changes in the supply or retardation values, because the 
level of Lake St. Clair will fluctuate too much.  Check input data, then 
increase the number of increments per period. The levels in question are 
as follows: 

#1066

Parameter ID code is longer than 16 alphanumeric characters.  Check your 
parameter line against the recognized codes in the documentation.  The 
line in question is as follows:

#1067

Found a ':', but no parameter ID code before it.  Check input file.  The 
line in question is as follows:

#1068

Tried to open a file (for write) and was denied.  The file should hold 
summarized input data.  There may be a permission problem with writing 
to the present working directory or the specific filename, or another 
process may already have the file open (e.g., another instance of the 
model currently running).  The filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning 
only to the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM 
executable), and the build information are as follows:

#1069

Found keyword 'INTERVAL' in a time-series data file, but could not 
determine the value after it.  The next letter after the keyword must be 
'D', 'W', 'Q', or 'M' (daily, weekly, quarter-monthly, or monthly).  The 
line in question is as follows:

#1070

First word begins with a 'U' or 'I', but it does not match either of the 
keywords required in time-series data files (i.e., INTERVAL' or 
'UNITS').  Check the entry. The line in question is as follows:

#1071

Found a line that appears to be a comment, but it did not start with a 
'#'.
Check the entry.  The line in question is as follows:

#1072

No units specified in time-series data file.  File must contain a line 
such as:
      Units: m3s

#1073

No data found in a time-series data file.  Program terminated.

#1074

No time interval specified in time-series data file.  File must contain 
a line such as:
      Interval: quarter-monthly

#1075

Found data, and read the units and interval from time-series data file, 
but could not backspace it to the first data line.

#1076

Failed to parse a line of quarter-monthly input data according to the 
standard format (I5,I2,12F8).  File may be in some other format, was 
corrupted, or has missing lines.  Regardless of the starting quarter-
month and ending quarter-month, all four lines for each year in the 
simulation must be present.

#1077

Failed to parse a line of monthly input data according to the standard 
format (I5,12F8).  Check the year value and look for corrupted data. The 
IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler used to 
create this version of the CGLRRM executable), the build information, 
and the line in question, are as follows:

#1078

Failed to parse a line of monthly input data according to the standard 
format (I5,12F8).  The year given on the line was not sequential from 
that of the previous line.  File may be in different format, have 
missing lines, or was corrupted.

#1079

Reached end of file (EOF) before all necessary data read.  Several 
possible reasons: incorrect ending date, data must be appended to the 
file, or the wrong file was specified.  Note:

a) Implementation of when the EOF is encountered during file access 
varies among computer systems (e.g., on Sparcstations, if the last line 
of a data file lacks a linefeed, EOF is reached, even though the line 
has valid data).  If no mistake is found, append a carriage-return (for 
DOS compatibility) or add a blank line to the end of data files.  

b) If a weekly routing interval is used, the end of the final period is 
actually the end day of the week containing the ending date specified in 
the run parameters.  The beginning of a week is taken as the day of the 
starting date (e.g., a weekly run specified to start on Monday, 
5Jan1998, and end on 31Mar1998, will actually require data through 
Sunday, 5Apr1998.  Each period is Monday to Sunday, and the final period 
is the one containing the ending date.  If data for Apr1998 was 
unavailable, the ending date should be changed to Sunday, 30Mar1998).

#1080
Time-series input data file specified inappropriate units.  Must be m3s, 
cfs, tcfs, or 10m3s.

#1081

Warning. Solving for level of Lakes Michigan-Huron without specifying 
net basin supplies.  0's will be assumed.

#1082

Warning. Solving for level of Lake St. Clair without specifying net 
basin supplies.  0's will be assumed.

#1083

Warning. Solving for level of Lake Erie without specifying net basin 
supplies.  0's will be assumed.

#1084

Warning. Solving for level of Lakes Michigan-Huron without specifying 
Chicago diversion data.  0's will be assumed.

#1085

Warning. Solving for level of Lake Erie without specifying Welland Canal 
flow data.  0's will be assumed.

#1086

Error reading summary inflow file.

#1087

Error converting a line read from summary inflow file to floating point 
numbers.

#1088

Routing interval specification record specifies an invalid value.  The 
first character after the ':' must be a 'D', 'W', 'Q', or 'M' (daily, 
weekly, quarter-monthly, or monthly routing through the middle lakes).  
The value read and the input line are as follows:

#1089

Tried to open a file (for read) and was denied.  The file should hold 
summarized input data.  There may be a permission problem writing to the 
present working directory or the specific filename.  Another process may 
already have the file open (e.g., another instance of the model 
currently running).  The filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only 
to the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM 
executable), and the build information, are as follows:

#1090

The simultaneous solution of routing equations for a given increment 
fell below an arbitrary accuracy threshold at least once.  The continuity
test for a period is based on arithmetically summing the water balance 
terms (outflow, inflow, diversions, net basin supply, average rate of 
change in storage).  The message is triggered when this result exceeds 
a threshold value, determined according to FlowRound.  If FlowRround is
1, then continuity must be satisfied to within 10 m3s.  If FlowRround is
0, then continuity must be satisfied to within 1 m3s.  This often results
from rounding effects on lake levels.  Occasionally it occurs due to 
failings in the mathematics.  In this case, it can usually be fixed by
using more increments.  Consult file detailed.log to get more information
regarding each occurrence.

#1091

Could not converge during iterative routing procedure.  The simultaneous 
equations could not be solved to the tolerances specified within the 
iterations allowed.  Review end of file detailed.log.  Increase number 
of routing increments, increase the flow rounding tolerance (default 
could be too low), or decrease the level rounding tolerance (e.g., 
rounding to nearest cm may result in lake levels that are 1 cm apart, 
but yield flows that are farther apart than the tolerance permits).

#1092

A MIDLAKESOLUTION record specifies an invalid value.  The first character
after the ':' must be an 'I' for iterative procedure (as in Plan77A 
documents), or 'M' for the matrix-based method (i.e., GLERL's MIDLAKES 
model).  The value read and the input line in question are as follows:

#1093

If the run starts after the first of the month, the initial levels for 
Lakes Superior, Michigan-Huron, St. Clair, and Erie can't be used by 
Plan 1977A as beginning-of-month levels.  BOM levels must be specified
with the parameters "Sup BOM Level", "MHU BOM Level", "St C BOM Level", 
and "Eri BOM Level".

#1094

A PREVSTMRIVFLOW record specifies no initial Lake Superior outflow for 
the previous month (blank first field).  The input line is as follows:

#1095

Specified an ending date earlier than the starting date.  The values 
read are as follows:

#1096

Data file does not include data back to the starting date specified.  
The filename and the date at which data begins are as follows:

#1097

Tried to open an output file (for write) and was denied.  There may be a 
permission problem with writing to the output directory or the specific 
filename.  Another process may already have the file open.  A name was 
constructed from the specified (or default) output directory, a 7 or
8 character root name assigned by the program, and from the specified 
(or default) output file extension.  Check the validity of the resulting 
filename on the filesystem and operating system in use (e.g., '&' can be 
used with Win95 but not Windows NT).  The filename constructed, the 
IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler used to 
create this version of the CGLRRM executable), and the build 
information, are as follows:

#1098

MonthLength record specifies an invalid value.  The first character 
following the ':' must be either an 'A' for actual, or a 'U' for 
uniform.

#1099

Specified a non-zero exponent for the downstream level in the Niagara 
River flow equation, indicating use of a two-gage discharge 
relationship, but also specified use of the "matrix" solution for 
solving the simultaneous equations on the middle lakes.  The two-gage 
equation in the matrix solution requires a starting level for the 
Chippewa-Grass Island Pool.  Insert a parameter file line such as:

CGIP Start Level: 171.16 m

#1100

Specified a non-zero exponent for the downstream level in the Niagara 
River flow equation, indicating use of a two-gage discharge 
relationship, but also need to specify a time-series of levels to use 
for the Chippewa-Grass Island Pool.  These can be either read from a 
file (specified with parameter CGIPAVELEVELDATA), or assigned from a 
repeating sequence.  Insert a parameter file line such as:

CGIP Ave Level Data: ../tsdata/niamlev.act

#1101

Warning.  Specified an exponent of zero for the downstream level in the 
Niagara River flow equation, indicating use of a single-gage discharge 
relationship, but also specified a starting level for the Chippewa-Grass 
Island Pool (not required).  Check for redundant input parameters. 

#1102

Warning.  Specified an exponent of zero for the downstream level in the 
Niagara River flow equation, indicating use of a single-gage discharge 
relationship, but also specified a time-series data file for the 
Chippewa-Grass Island Pool (not required).  Check for redundant input 
parameters. 

#1103

Had difficulty locating first comma-delimited field in the first line of 
a repeated time-series data set.  

#1104

Failed to recognize the units (if any) specified for some repeating 
time-series data.  Please consult the documentation for a comprehensive 
list of allowable units.  The parameter ID portion of the line in 
question is unavailable, but the remainder is as follows:

#1105

No time interval specified on the first line of a repeating data set.  
After specifying the units, a field starting with 'd', 'w', 'q', or 'm' 
is required.    The parameter ID portion of the line in question is 
unavailable, but the remainder is as follows:

#1106

Invalid time interval specified on the first line of a repeating data 
set.  After specifying the units, a field starting with 'd', 'w', 'q', 
or 'm' is required.  The parameter ID portion of the line in question is 
unavailable, but the remainder is as follows:

#1107

Could not parse a comma-delimited field from the string listed below.  
The third field (or first, if a continuation of the data from a prior 
line) must show the number of values contained on the rest of a line for 
repeating data.  The parameter ID portion of the line in question is 
unavailable, but the remainder is as follows:

#1108

Tried to read an integer from the string listed above.  Field must show 
the number of values contained on the remainder of a line for repeating 
data.  Either could not be read as an integer, or value is < 1.  The 
parameter ID portion of the line in question is unavailable, but the 
remainder is as follows:

#1109

Specifying either too many or too few values for a repeating time-
series.  The parameter ID portion of the line in question is 
unavailable, but the remainder is as follows:

#1110

Tried to read a floating point from the string listed above.  Field must 
contain one value from a repeating time-series sequence.  The parameter 
ID portion of the line in question is unavailable, but the remainder is 
as follows: 

#1111

Could not parse a comma-delimited field from the string listed below.  
Field is part of a comma-delimited list of repeating time-series values.  
The parameter ID portion of the line in question is unavailable, but the 
remainder is as follows:

#1112

Specified a non-zero exponent for the downstream level in the Niagara 
River flow equation, indicating use of a two-gage discharge 
relationship, but also specified use of the "iterative" solution for 
solving the simultaneous equations on the middle lakes.  The two-gage 
equation in the iterative solution doesn't need a starting level for the 
Chippewa-Grass Island Pool.  Comment this parameter out.

#1113

Warning.  Parameters indicate solving for at least one of the middle 
lakes, but not all of them.  Must solve for all three.  If any of 'M', 
'C', or 'E' appear in the "Lakes to solve for" parameter, they must all 
be there.  Failed to specify solving for the following lakes:

#1114

Warning.  Specified a starting level for a lake, but didn't identify it 
as one of the lakes to solve for.  Check input consistency. 

#1115

Warning.  Specified NBS data for a lake, but didn't identify it as one 
of the lakes to solve for.  Check input consistency. 

#1116

Rounding-related record specifies an invalid value.  The value specified 
determines the decimal place to round to, and must be between -6 and 3.  
If a value of -99 is specified, no rounding is performed, and the full 
64-bit floating-point representation is carried forward in the 
computations.  The values read are as follows:

#1117

A STMRIVSOLUTION record specifies an invalid value.  This parameter 
tells how to compute St. Marys River flows (Lake Superior outflows).  If 
'1977A' appears after the ':', then the program uses Plan 1977A to 
calculate Superior outflows.  If '1955' appears after the ':', then the 
program uses the 1955 Modified Rule of 49 to calculate Superior 
outflows.  If 'O' appears, an outflow equation is used (that must be 
specified using the STMRIVEQN parameter; e.g., the pre-project 
equation).  The value read and the input line are as follows:

#1118

Note: performing non-monthly Lake Superior routing using Plan 1977-A.  
Please refer to assumptions in documentation for Superior modeling.
#1119

Superior increment record specifies no integer value (blank first 
field).   Edit the record.  The input line is as follows:

#1120

Lake Superior listed as one of the lakes to solve for, but failed to 
specify how to compute Lake Superior outflows.  Insert a STMRIVSOLUTION 
record.

#1121

Warning.  Time step for middle lakes routing is extremely large.  
Recommend reducing time step. 

#1122

Warning.  Solving for level of Lake Superior without specifying net 
basin supplies.  Null values have been assumed.

#1123

Warning.  Solving for level of Lake Superior without specifying Long Lac 
or Ogoki diversion data.  Null values have been assumed.

#1124

Tried to open a file for time-series output, but failed.  The "Only One 
Open" flag is true, so this is unlikely to be a problem with too many 
file sopen.  Another process (e.g, an editor) may already have it open, 
or there is a permission problem.  The filename, IOSTAT value (which has 
meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the 
CGLRRM executable), and the build information are as follows:

#1125

Tried to open a file for time-series output, but failed.  All output 
files are open simultaneously, so likely exceeded operating system's 
limit on open files.  Test by including a parameter line such as:

	Only One Open: True

Although "too many files open" is a common problem, this specific error 
could also be due to something else.  Another process (e.g., an editor) 
may already have it open, or there may be a permission problem.  The 
filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler 
used to create this version of the CGLRRM executable), and the build 
information, are as follows:

#1126

Tried to open a file for writing time-series output, but failed.  File 
had been opened, written to, and closed successfully earlier in the run.  
Another process (e.g., an editor) may already have it open, or a disk 
error occurred.  The filename, IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to 
the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM 
executable), and the build information are as follows:

#1127

Encountered write error.   The IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to 
the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM 
executable), the build information, and the line that caused the 
problem, are as follows:

#1128

Requested an output file for a lake not being solved for.  The lake and 
data requested are given below.

#1129

Requested an improper output file.  The period length (monthly, weekly, 
etc.) of the output file must be equal to or greater than the routing 
period used for the lake.

#1130

Did not specify previous Lake Superior outflow, as required to use Plan 
1977A.  This is required information for the plan.  Insert a line such 
as:

	Prev. St. M. Riv. Flow:  1560 m3s

#1131

Lake Ontario listed as one of the lakes to solve for, but failed to 
specify how to compute Lake Ontario outflows.  Insert a USTLRIVSOLUTION 
record.

#1132

Warning.  Solving for level of Lake Ontario without specifying net basin 
supplies.  Null values will be assumed.

#1133

Warning.  Solving for level of Lake Ontario without specifying Welland 
Canal flow data.  Null values will be assumed.

#1134

USTLRIVSOLUTION record specified an invalid value.  This parameter tells 
how to compute Lake Ontario outflows.  If the characters after the ':' 
are '1958D', then the program uses Plan 1958D to calculate outflows.  If 
'1998', then Plan 1998 is used to calculate Ontario outflows.  If an 
'O', an outflow equation is used (that must be specified using the 
USTLRIVEQN parameter).  The value read and the input line are as 
follows:

#1135

Warning.  P77AMONTHSTOAVG record failed to include a proper list of how 
many months of forecasted outflows must be averaged to compute a Plan 
1977A outflow.  The comma-delimited list should contain 12 positive 
integers.  The first shows the number of months to average in order to 
compute a January outflow, the second shows the number of months to 
average a February outflow, etc.  This is optional information for using 
Plan1977A; if not specified the program assumes 5 months to average, no 
matter which month is being computed.  Program terminated.  Please check 
syntax of input.  The incorrect input line is as follows:

#1136

A P77AMONTHSTOAVG record contains an improper value.  Only possible to 
average between 1 and 12 months of Plan 1977A outflows to compute the 
final Plan 1977A flow.  The incorrect input line is as follows:

#1137

Input record with comma-delimited list of integer input values does not 
have enough values on the line.

#1138

Could not read field in a comma-delimited list as an integer (I6).

#1139

P77A MidLake Inc record specifies an invalid value.  The number of 
increments must be between 1 and 999.  The value read and the input line 
are as follows:

#1140

Could not read value after the colon as an integer (I9).

#1141

Computed value unrealistic.  There are two possible explanations.  A 
lake is being drained or filled up well beyond physical possibility.  
Check the input data (especially units).  

Otherwise, the model is somehow using the missing data marker (-9999) as 
valid input.  Though a bug is possible, this situation could happen if 
some column of input data (with mixed valid and missing data) needed 
conversion, either into a different routing interval, or different 
units.  When specifying forced flows, always provide them in the base 
units (m or m3s), and in the proper routing interval.

#1142

Tried to specify a time series of daily values as repeating data.  This 
is not supported simply because the number of values is so cumbersome.
Daily time-series values must be specified using an input data file.  
The end of the line in question looks like:

#1143

Failed to parse a line of daily input data according to the standard 
format (I5,I3,I2,8F8).  Simulation end date may be beyond data provided.  
Check also for garbled data. The IOSTAT value (which has meaning only to 
the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the CGLRRM 
executable), the build information, and the line in question, are as 
follows:

#1144

Failed to parse a line of daily input data according to the standard 
format (I5,I3,I2,8F8).  The year, month, and quarter-month given on the 
line were not sequential from that of the previous line.  Check that 
file is in daily format, contains no missing lines, is not in a -
different format, or was corrupted.

#1145

Water-balance or retardation time-series of input data contains only 
missing values for a routing period.  This will yield spurious results.  
Only 'special' columns of data may contain missing values.  Printed 
below are the lake name, period ending date, and column number from the 
lake's summary input file:

#1146

'Compatibility mode' for Plan 1977A is set to do a six-month regulation 
run, but the end date is set beyond six months.  (There are only six 
months of NBS in the operational supply matrix).

#1147

Only weekly routing through Lake Ontario is permitted if using Plan 
1958D.  Separating the routing period from the regulation period is not 
yet permitted for Lake Ontario.

#1148

'P77A Compat Mode' record specifies an invalid value.  The value must be 
an integer (i.e., specifically -1, 0, or 1).  Read the documentation for 
option details.  The value specified was:

#1149

Plan 1958D is implemented only for weekly regulation, with the week 
beginning on a Friday.  You must specify the year, month, and date of a 
Friday for the P58D Forecast Date.  The line was given as:

#1150

Could not find the Plan 1958D Simulation input file specified by 
parameter P58DSIMULATEFILE.  The filename used and the parameter line it 
was read from are as follows:

#1151

Specified a time series of weekly values as repeating data.  This 
is not supported, because weeks are not repeatable on an annual basis.  
Weekly time-series values must be specified using an input data file.  
The end of the line in question looks like:

#1152

Failed to parse a line of daily input data according to the standard 
format (I5,I3,I2,12F8).  The year, month, and quarter given on the line 
were not sequential from that of the previous line, or contained 
illegitmate values.  File may be in some other format, or has missing 
lines, or was corrupted. 

#1153

Failed to parse a line of weekly input data according to the standard 
format (I5,I3,I3,1F8).  The year, month, and date given on the line were 
not sequential from that of the previous line, or contained illegitmate
values.  File may be in some other format, or has missing lines, or was 
corrupted. 

#1154

Failed to parse a line of weekly input data according to the standard 
format (I5,I3,I3,1F8).  End of final routing period may be beyond data 
provided.  Check also for garbled data. The IOSTAT value (which has 
meaning only to the FORTRAN compiler used to create this version of the 
CGLRRM executable), the build information, and the line in question, 
are as follow:

#1155

Appears to be a discontinuity in the dates appear inside a weekly input 
data file.  The dates expected and the date encountered are listed below:

#1156

Water-balance or retardation time-series of input data contains some 
missing values for a routing period.  The CGLRRM doesn't estimate data.  
Only 'special' columns of data may contain missing values.  Printed 
below are the lake name, period ending date, and column number from the 
lake's summary input file:

#1157

Failed to parse a line of quarter-monthly input data according to the 
standard format (I5,I2,12F8).  The year and quarter given on the line 
were not sequential from that of the previous line.  File may be in 
different format, have missing lines, or was corrupted.

#1158

Inconsistent input detected regarding lake area data.  An area record for
a lake not being routed was supplied.  Please review your input parameters
and/or the detailed log for more information.  The number of points and
lake in question are:

#1159

Failed top specify area data for a lake you are routing through.  Provide
a record such as 
        Sup. Area/Elev: 82521.429480 km2
        MHu  Area-elev:  117470753820  m2 
This is a only sample.  In your case, the missing area data is for
#1160

St. Marys Solution parameter indicates using an outflow equation to
determine St. Marys River flows, but either the equation was not specified,
or wasn't specified correctly.

#1161

Warning.  Calculating outflows for a lake without specifying any 
retardation losses (i.e., for Lake Erie, generally would have at least one
of "Nia Riv Ice Data", "Nia Riv Weed Data", or "Nia Riv Retr Data").  
Null values have been assumed.  This warning pertains to:
#1162
Trying to route through the middle lakes, but didn't specify one of the
outflow equations. 

#1163

Computing Lake Superior outflows using a Plan 1977A, but input contained 
a "St M Riv Eqn" parameter, specifying a discharge equation for the St. 
Marys River.  

#1164

Plan 1977A needs to know beginning-of-month levels.  Since this run starts 
at the beginning of a month, it uses the initial lake levels for the run, 
and you don't need to explicitly provide BOM levels for Plan 1977A (i.e., 
"Sup BOM Level", "MHU BOM Level", etc.).  However, you specified a value 
for at least one of them anyway, and it contradicts the initial lake level, 
causing ambiguity and resulting in the sad demise of your run.

#1165

Tried to use an input parameter that is not fully implemented.  It has 
been registered in the list of allowable parameters, but no code has yet
been implemented to parse the value(s).  Please inform the model developers
of your desire.

#1166

Missing information: don't have either the run's Start Date or End Date
completely defined.  Check your input.

#1167

Error.  Your input indicates not solving for at least one of the middle  
lakes.  You must be routing through Lake Superior and the middle lakes in 
order to use Plan 1977A.  

#1168

Error.  You must specify a value for parameter SUPCRITERIAROUND.  

#1169

Error.  You must specify a value for parameter SUPSWPIERFORMULA.  

#1170

'SUPSWPIERFORMULA' record specifies an invalid value.  The value must be 
an integer (specifically, 1 or 2).  Use 1 for the old, traditional formula,
and 2 for the new EC formula derived in 2000.  The value specified was:

#1171

The model is coming up with unreasonable numbers for Lake Superior, 
indicating a bust somewhere.  This particular failure was triggered by a
level too high to stay under the maximum outflow constraints in Plan 1977A.
The related values are listed below.  However, this is more likely a symptom
than the cause.  Review the results thus far to see when the lake levels
began climbing out of a reasonable range, and try to determine why.  Check
units on input data, turn of the Sup Verbosity parameter, etc.

#1172

'SUPCRITERIAROUND' record specifies an invalid value.  The value must be 
an integer (specifically, 1 or 2).  This parameter directs the program on to 
round calculations regarding Criterions B and C, and also while determining
total non-gated flow.  A value of 1 means to use the rounding practices 
embedded in Plan 1977A.  A value of 2 means to use the system-wide settings
established with the parameters 'LEVELROUND', etc).  The value specified was:

#1173

You tried to enter the same parameter for twice.  Only GENERALVERBOSITY, 
MODELERNAME, the parameters specifying area-elevation pairs, and the 
parameters regarding repeating time-series data are allowed multiple entries.  

#1174

You entered a parameter that the model accepts for input, but doesn't 
currently use for anything.  This situation occurs because of a partial
implementation of some anticipated feature, or because some change or
disablement may not be permanent.  The run stops so that you can verify
your input.  The parameter that caused the problem is shown below.
		  
#1175

Error.  You must specify a value for parameter SUPPREPROJMETHOD.  

#1176

Error.  You must specify a value for parameter SUPCRITBMETHOD.  

#1177

'SUPPREPROJMETHOD' record specifies an invalid value.  The value must be 
an integer (specifically, 1 or 2).  This parameter directs the program to 
use the old way (get pre-project by popping the Plan 1977A forecasted level
into the 1887 equation) if set to 1.  If SUPPREPROJMETHOD is set to 2, the 
sub GetSupPreProject solves for the Criterion C flow iteratively, based on 
the BOP level and water balance terms.  Either way, the trigger remains the 
Plan 1977A forecasted level.  The value specified was:

#1178

'SUPCRITBMETHOD' record specifies an invalid value.  The value must be 
an integer (specifically, 1 or 2).  This parameter directs the program to 
use the old way (allow Criterion B flow to drop below the pre-project flow)
if set to 1.  If SUPCRITBMETHOD is set to 2, then the Criterion B flow is 
not allowed to be less than the pre-project flow.  The value specified was:

#1179

All of the supply indicators were read in on previous records.  

#1180

Error reading supply indicators.  The first value on a line is expected to
contain the number of supply values on the line.

#1181

When routing through Lake Ontario under Plan 1958D, the outflow is constant 
for the period, so the number of increments is not used.  

#1182

Could not find the Criterion K File input file specified by parameter 
CRITERIONKFILE.  The filename used and the parameter line it 
was read from are as follows:

#1183

Did not specify the year of the last sturgeon flow, as required to use Plan 
2012.  This is required information for the plan.  Insert a line such 
as:

	Last Sturgeon Year: 2013

#1184

The last sturgeon flow specified occurs after the start of the simulation!

#1185

Previous months gate setting must be either 0.5 or an integer from 1 to 16.

#9999

        10        20        30        40        50        60        70        80        90
123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890
